Hello everybody and welcome in this lecture I'd like to give you a guided tour of the level that we're
going to create.
And yours won't necessarily look like this you may take it off in your own direction which is absolutely
fine and that would be great to see as well.
So go ahead and play our game.
I'm going to launch in the new editor window which means I can make it full screen so we can all enjoy
it.
Okay so let's have a look around.
So we start off in this courtyard area gives you an idea that we've come from this direction.
There's nothing out there though but the void.
And then we go through the level and as you can see here there is these these rays of light coming from
something in the distance.
I'm guessing by the color of the lights that it's maybe the moon.
So some blue light and we've got the orange burning torches here as well to contrast and be complementary
to the overall lighting of our scene.
Now as we go through this section we'll talk about how to lay out all of this and also to make sure
that we don't end up with some issues.
Now I've left some gaps in here from where we put the level together and we'll we'll talk about lighting
as well I've mentioned in passing but these torches are illuminating the world around us in a meaningful
way.
And look there's this light coming through or seemingly coming through there.
These are the sorts of things that we have to watch out for when we puts a level together and a very
easy to fall foul of if we're not careful.
And I think around here yes we've got some more light bleed there's a way of blocking that source of
light coming through that's a somewhat the limitation of the engine.
However sometimes it's not a limitation of the engine.
But if we have a look up here we actually have a gap in our in our ceiling here where the two walls
don't actually meet.
So we talk about how you can align your pieces of geometry so this doesn't happen in fact we can see
I've even made a mistake.
Just say we have three pieces in a row with our arms joined together.
I was only supposed to show you the one but never mind.
So we go down here and we'll talk about all this.
That kind of breaks the immersion and we'll talk about how we can get this effect.
Now this is called volumetric lighting.
It's strong here because I want to draw your attention to it.
However we can certainly dial it back a bit because this fireplace in the distance is somewhat meaningless.
We don't see anything of the of the of the structure that's behind that because it's all faded out.
Now that's perhaps something you might want to include in the level you might want to obscure something
that's coming up.
You wouldn't want to lead people into a trap would you.
And then we go ahead and we've got this sort of room and our mission is going to be to steal the golden
gargoyle and we can come out of here and this will be our escape routes.
And there's another sort of room in here that's blocked off.
And then we enter the void quite literally.
So this is one of the options where you can take the level just that little bit further.
Remember there are parts of your level that you can see there are parts of the level that only the player
will see and that's that's kind of critical here.
So perhaps we can build this out a little further into an archway but wanted to leave this in here to
show you that it is possible to build a compelling level and then perhaps as they walk around this corner
this is where it fades out and they navigate to see this area entirely up to you how you structure the
game.
Now one of the main things about the game itself is escaping and where are we escaping from.
Well your mission is to pick up this guard gargoyle just here.
But when we do there's a door up here we can just about see it's there is and there's also a door hidden
in here.
This one just comes through the geometry whereas this one has more presence.
So we discuss how does that matter or not if you align things properly with the player even notice.
Well it depends on your level of realism that you're going for.
So go ahead and pick up our gargoyle and when we do that it doesn't look like oh look at that when we
put it back and it falls off.
So we're using physics here.
We'll design a grabber as well so we can pick things up in our world.
But when you get trapped in here both of these door shuts and you'll have to find a way out.
Now I'm not going to tell you the way out at the moment because that would give away some of the mystery
of the game but you can pick up other things in the room.
So for instance this pots here and wherever the Skull and Bones is gone maybe you can put that on there.
Doesn't look like it's there's so much that we're going to learn in this section from a little bit of
Level Design to lighting the world around us and to how we can go ahead and make a world that we can
interact with.
How do we go ahead and code so we can pick up how do we make sure we can't pick up something from a
distance.
We have to be close to it before we can pick it up.
Oh lots of fun that we can have.
And I'm really looking forward to going through the section with you.
So let's go ahead first of all and create our brand new projects.